br: provide a storage target option for BR restore checkpoint data (#20492)
pingcap/docs: br/br-checkpoint-restore.md

Cross-major-version checkpoint recovery is not recommended. For clusters where `br` recovery fails using the Long-Term Support (LTS) versions prior to v8.5.0, recovery cannot be continued with v8.5.0 or later LTS versions, and vice versa.

## Implementation details: store checkpoint data in the downstream cluster

> **Note:**
>

> > Starting from v9.0.0, BR stores checkpoint data in the downstream cluster by default. You can configure the parameter `--checkpoint-storage` to make BR store checkpoint data in the external storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Starting from v9.0.0, BR stores checkpoint data in the downstream cluster by default. You can specify an external storage for checkpoint data using the `--checkpoint-storage` parameter.
```

Before entering the log restore phase during the initial restore, `br` constructs a mapping of upstream and downstream cluster database and table IDs at the `restored-ts` time point. This mapping is persisted in the system table `mysql.tidb_pitr_id_map` to prevent duplicate allocation of database and table IDs. Deleting data from `mysql.tidb_pitr_id_map` might lead to inconsistent PITR restore data.

## Implementation details: store checkpoint data in the external storage

> **Note:**
>

> > Starting from v9.0.0, BR stores checkpoint data in the downstream cluster by default. You can configure the parameter `--checkpoint-storage` to make BR store checkpoint data in the external storage.
> >
> > For example: `./br restore full -s "s3://backup-bucket/backup-prefix" --checkpoint-storage "s3://temp-bucket/checkpoints"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Starting from v9.0.0, BR stores checkpoint data in the downstream cluster by default. You can specify an external storage for checkpoint data using the `--checkpoint-storage` parameter. For example:
>
> ```shell
> ./br restore full -s "s3://backup-bucket/backup-prefix" --checkpoint-storage "s3://temp-bucket/checkpoints"
> ```
```

> The checkpoint data stored in the external storage has the following directory format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The checkpoint data stored in the external storage has the following directory formats:
```

> The checkpoint data stored in the external storage has the following directory formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the external storage, the directory structure of the checkpoint data is as follows:
```

> - Root path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}` uses the downstream cluster ID `{downstream-cluster-ID}` to distinguish different restore clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Root path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}` uses the downstream cluster ID `{downstream-cluster-ID}` to distinguish between different restore clusters.
```

> - Path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/log` stores log file checkpoint data during log restore phase.
> - Path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/sst` stores checkpoint data of the SST files that are not backed up by log backup during log restore phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/log` stores log file checkpoint data during the log restore phase.
- Path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/sst` stores checkpoint data of the SST files that are not backed up by log backup during the log restore phase.
```

> - Path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/snapshot` stores SST file checkpoint data during snapshot restore phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Path `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/snapshot` stores checkpoint data during the snapshot restore phase.
```

```
.
`-- restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}
    |-- log
    |   |-- checkpoint.meta
    |   |-- data
    |   |   |-- {uuid}.cpt
    |   |   |-- {uuid}.cpt
    |   |   `-- {uuid}.cpt
    |   |-- ingest_index.meta
    |   `-- progress.meta
    |-- snapshot
    |   |-- checkpoint.meta
    |   |-- checksum
    |   |   |-- {uuid}.cpt
    |   |   |-- {uuid}.cpt
    |   |   `-- {uuid}.cpt
    |   `-- data
    |       |-- {uuid}.cpt
    |       |-- {uuid}.cpt
    |       `-- {uuid}.cpt
    `-- sst
        `-- checkpoint.meta
```

Checkpoint restore operations are divided into two parts: snapshot restore and PITR restore.

### Snapshot restore

During the initial restore, `br` creates a `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/snapshot` path in the target cluster. The path records checkpoint data, the upstream cluster ID, and the BackupTS of the backup data.

> If the restore fails, you can retry it using the same command, and `br` will automatically read the checkpoint information from the specified external storage path and resume from the last restore point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the restore fails, you can retry it using the same command. `br` will automatically read the checkpoint information from the specified external storage path and resume from the last restore point.
```

When entering the log restore phase during the initial restore, `br` creates a `restore-{downstream-cluster-ID}/log` path in the target cluster. This path records checkpoint data, the upstream cluster ID, and the restore time range (`start-ts` and `restored-ts`). If restore fails during this phase, you need to specify the same `start-ts` and `restored-ts` as recorded in the checkpoint database when retrying. Otherwise, `br` will report an error and prompt that the current specified restore time range or upstream cluster ID is different from the checkpoint record. If the restore cluster has been cleaned, you can manually clean up the checkpoint data in the external storage or specify another external storage path to store checkpoint data, and retry with a different backup.

> Before entering the log restore phase during the initial restore, `br` constructs a mapping of upstream and downstream cluster database and table IDs at the `restored-ts` time point. This mapping is persisted in the system table `mysql.tidb_pitr_id_map` to prevent duplicate allocation of database and table IDs. Deleting data from `mysql.tidb_pitr_id_map` might lead to inconsistent PITR restore data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before entering the log restore phase during the initial restore, `br` constructs a mapping of the database and table IDs in the upstream and downstream clusters at the `restored-ts` time point. This mapping is persisted in the system table `mysql.tidb_pitr_id_map` to prevent duplicate allocation of database and table IDs. Deleting data from `mysql.tidb_pitr_id_map` might lead to inconsistent PITR restore data.
```
